"Title", "Back pain exercises and stretches"

"Knee to Chest", "Lie flat on your back with toes pointed to the sky. Slowly bend your right knee and pull your leg up to you chest. Wrap your arms around your thigh, knee or shin, and gently pull the knee towards your chest. Hold for 20 seconds and slowly extend the leg to starting position. Repeat three times each leg."

"Lying Knee Twist", "Lie on your back with your legs extended straight out. Bend the right knee up and cross it over the left side of your body. Hold in a position that allows you to feel a gentle stretch through the back and buttocks muscles for 20 seconds. Tighten your core muscles and rotate back to center. Repeat three times on each side."

"Yoga Cat/Cow", "Start this more by kneeling on all fours with your hands beneath your shoulders and your knees directly below your hips. Exhale and gently arch your spine. Inhale, tighten your core muscles and round your back, like a cat. Move slowly between movements and hold in each position for 5-10 seconds. Repeat 10 times."

"Child’s Pose", "Begin on your hands and knees on the floor, with your hands under your shoulders and knees under your hips. Reach out directly in front of you, extending your arms and placing your palms flat on the floor. Slowly sit your hips back toward your heels, dropping your head and chest downward as your arms extend further."

"Kneeling Hip Flexor Stretch", "Begin in a lunge with your right foot forward and your left knee on the floor. Squeeze your left glute and gently press the pelvis forward to increase the stretch. Hold for 30-45 seconds and then switch sides."

"Extended Puppy Pose", "Begin on hands and knees with a flat back. The shoulders are over the wrists, and the hips are over the knees. Keep the hips over the knees as you reach your arms forward and lower the chest towards the floor. Draw your navel to the spine and breathe deeply. Hold for 4-8 breaths before sitting back on the heels and resting in child’s pose."

"Thread the Needle", "Begin on hands and knees with a flat back, fingers pointing in towards each other. Lift the right arm straight out to the side, then bend the left elbow and thread the right arm underneath the left side. Your aim is to rotate the upper trunk while keeping the hips still. To increase the stretch, lower your right shoulder and ear to the floor. Hold for 4 breaths and then switch sides."

"The Pigeon", "Starting off on all-fours and facing the ground, raise your left knee under your chest so that it’s almost at 90-degrees under your torso. Then, with your left hand placed over your right hand at eye level, lower your forehead to rest on your hands. Feel the stretch in your glutes. Hold for three minutes then swap legs."

"Legs Up the Wall", "With your backside right up against a wall, raise your legs up and straight against it. You’ll feel all the muscles of your lower back and upper thighs relax."

"Forward Fold", "Stand with feet hip distance apart, fold at the waist and reach toward the floor. Bend your knees as much as necessary to allow your stomach to meet your thighs. Hold for five breathes, reach up toward the sky and repeat."
